## Examining the North-to-South migration of Black and White people in the United States from 1960 to 2020
This repository contains the instructions and materials needed to replicate a surface-level investigation into the "Sunbelt phenomenon" (Newman, 1983), a migration pattern that showed large numbers of Americans, particularly Black Americans, migrating from the North to the South in the 1970s despite the opposite trend displayed by the Great Migration only a few decades earlier.

#### Abstract
This paper explores the reasons behind the migration of three groups of people from the American North to the American South from 1960 to 2020: Black people, White people, and the total American population. Using survey data from 1960 to 2020, we attempt to determine a relationship between the median family income of each group of people and the percentage of that group of people who move from the North to the South. We find that the strongest correlation between median family income and migration rate exists among Black people, although further, more detailed analyses of the other factors underlying this migration pattern are needed to tell a more complete story.

#### Repository Contents
- **Reproducibility Package:** This folder provides essential background information and contains detailed instructions on how to recreate this project exactly. It is designed to clarify specific choices made and ensure that the project may be continued or expanded upon in the future as necessary.
- **Final Report:** The final report can be found within the subsection of the Reproducibility Package folder titled "[3 Report](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/tree/main/Reproducibility%20Package/3%20Report)." This "3 Report" folder contains (1) a PDF copy of the final report, (2) a direct link to view the report on Overleaf, and (3) a copy of the LaTeX code for the report.
- [**Working Folder:**](https://sumailsyr-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/qwu102_syr_edu/ElFttFZHsVlEp0PZXKwhwTgBf4TW_41Wh42sCX_AVBQrvg?e=3Szf2H) This is the OneDrive folder that contains the original Excel and Word files that I used to create the revised version of the project. (Copies of or links to the information in these documents have been uploaded to GitHub as necessary.) The link is accessible to anyone with a working Syracuse University Microsoft account.
- **Fall 2023:** This is an archive containing the files that were created in Fall 2023 and are not directly relevant to the reproducibility of this project.
