### 2.1 Summary of variables and samples required
Following Professor Pearson's instructions, we were to collect data from IPUMS, a website that provides global census and survey data. For our purposes, we used the [IPUMS USA](https://usa.ipums.org/usa/) page.

#### Variables
The following variables were used in our research. Descriptions are lifted directly from the IPUMS website, with links provided (in the headings) for each variable if the reader would like to read the full, detailed explanations.

##### [Race (RACE)](https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/RACE#description_section)
The concept of race has changed over the more than 150 years represented in IPUMS. Currently, the Census Bureau and others consider race to be a sociopolitical construct, not a scientific or anthropological one. Many detailed **RACE** categories consist of national origin groups. With the exception of the 1970-1990 Puerto Rican censuses, **RACE** was asked of every person in all years.

##### Birthplace (BPL)
**[BPL](https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/BPL#description_section)** indicates the U.S. state, the outlying U.S. area or territory, or the foreign country where the person was born. 

##### State of residence (STATEFIP)
**[STATEFIP](https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/STATEFIP#description_section)** reports the state in which the household was located, using the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) coding scheme, which orders the states alphabetically. 

##### Total family income (FTOTINC)
**[FTOTINC](https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/FTOTINC#description_section)** reports the total pre-tax money income earned by one's family (as defined by FAMUNIT) from all sources for the previous year.

##### Consumer price index multiplier (CPI99)
**[CPI99](https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CPI99#description_section)** provides the CPI-U multiplier available from the Burea of Labor Statistics to convert dollar figures to constant 1999 dollars. This corresponds to the dollar amounts in the 2000 census, which inquired about income in 1999. Multiplying dollar amounts by **CPI99** (which is constant within years) will render then comparable across time and thus suitable for multivariate analysis.

#### Samples
As is stated in the files in "1 Project Context," we were to use the following samples:
- 1950 1% sample
- 1960 5% sample
- 1970 1% metro fm1 sample
- 1980 1% metro sample
- 1990 1% metro sample
- 2000 ACS sample
- 2010 ACS sample
- 2020 ACS sample

However, when conducting the data analysis portion of the project, we were unable to collect the median family income data for the 1950 sample. When the corresponding do-file was run in Stata, the 1950 data showed numbers so large (in the millions) that they were unlikely to be accurately indicative of the median family income for Americans in 1950. Therefore, this sample was removed from analysis for the rest of the project. This is mentioned in the revised report.
