### 2.2 Downloading and accessing the data
#### Downloading the data
- Sign in to (or create an account for) the IPUMS USA website and click on "Select Data."
- Refer back to [2.1 Summary of variables and samples required](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/2%20Data%20Collection%20%26%20Analysis/2.1%20Summary%20of%20variables%20and%20samples%20required.md) to select the correct samples and variables, then click on "Create Data Extract." You will then see a table with the following columns: Extract #; Date Created; Status; **Download Data;** **Command Files;** Codebook; Revise Extract; Description; Show Hidden.
- In the "Download Data" column, click on the green button to download the data file.
- In the "Command Files" column, click on the "Stata" link. You will be directed to a page of text. Right click and click on "Save As." This will allow you to save the Stata command file as a .txt file with any file name you choose.

#### Accessing the data
- The data file will be compressed when first downloaded from IPUMS and must be extracted before it can be used in Stata. I used 7-Zip through the Syracuse University remote desktop to do this. This process converts the data files to proper Stata .dat files.
- The command files can be opened directly in Stata once downloaded from IPUMS, but still needs to be set up to analyze the data file:
>- Open Stata, then open a new do-file editor.
>- Click "Open" and select the command file.
>- Add the `cd` command at the top of the file, before the line that reads "Set more off."
>- In the line that reads `using '"filename.dat"'`, change the file name to the name you chose for your data file.
- After these two steps have been completed, you can use the command file ("do-file") to open and work with the data file in Stata. However, to conduct any of the data analysis necessary to this project, extra lines of code need to be added to the end of the command file. Those lines of code are described in the next document:[2.3 Data work](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/2%20Data%20Collection%20%26%20Analysis/2.3.1%20Data%20work.md).

#### Our data
- Our downloaded and extracted .dat and .txt files are located in this OneDrive folder: [July 2024 .dat and .txt Files](https://sumailsyr-my.sharepoint.com/my?login_hint=qwu102%40syr%2Eedu&id=%2Fpersonal%2Fqwu102%5Fsyr%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2F3%20Junior%20Year%2F3%2E1%20%28JUNIOR%29%20Summer%202024%2FECN%20310%20Migration%20Project%20Revisions%2FJuly%202024%20%2Edat%20and%20%2Etxt%20Files).
- This is a subfolder in our [Working Folder](https://sumailsyr-my.sharepoint.com/my?login_hint=qwu102%40syr%2Eedu&id=%2Fpersonal%2Fqwu102%5Fsyr%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2F3%20Junior%20Year%2F3%2E1%20%28JUNIOR%29%20Summer%202024%2FECN%20310%20Migration%20Project%20Revisions), which is called ECN 310 Migration Project Revisions. A brief description and link to the folder is also available in the README on the home page of this repository.
