### 2.3.1 Data work
#### Lines of code
In order to obtain the data we needed, we added these lines of code to the end of each command file:

`* Family Income`

`gen realinc=ftotinc*cpi99`

`sort race`

`sum realinc, detail`

`by race: sum realinc, detail`

*The purpose of this section is to collect the median family income data. Using the **FTOTINC** and **CPI99** variables, we create a new variable **"realinc,"** which shows the income in each sample year converted to 1999 dollars. This allows the data to be compared fairly across all decades.*

`* Migration Rate`

`gen north=0`

`replace north=1 if bpl==09`

`replace north=1 if bpl==10`

`replace north=1 if bpl==23`

`replace north=1 if bpl==24`

`replace north=1 if bpl==25`

`replace north=1 if bpl==33`

`replace north=1 if bpl==34`

`replace north=1 if bpl==36`

`replace north=1 if bpl==42`

`replace north=1 if bpl==44`

`replace north=1 if bpl==50`

*The purpose of this and the next two sections is to collect the migration rate data. In this first section, a dummy variable **"north"** is created. By default, **north**=0. The next lines of code change the value of **north** to 1 for each **BPL** (birthplace) identified as a Northern state (defined by us [here](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/1%20Project%20Context/README%20(Project%20Context))) using their FIPS codes. This identifies and marks those individuals who were born in the North.*

`gen south=0`

`replace south=1 if statefip==01`

`replace south=1 if statefip==05`

`replace south=1 if statefip==12`

`replace south=1 if statefip==13`

`replace south=1 if statefip==22`

`replace south=1 if statefip==28`

`replace south=1 if statefip==37`

`replace south=1 if statefip==40`

`replace south=1 if statefip==47`

`replace south=1 if statefip==48`

`replace south=1 if statefip==51`

*This section has a similar purpose to the first section. First, a dummy variable **"south"** is created. By default, **south**=0. The next lines of code change the value of **south** to 1 for each **STATEFIP** (state) identified as a Southern state (defined by Prof. Pearson's instructions [here](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/1%20Project%20Context/1.1.1%20Prof.%20Pearson's%20instructions%201%20(background).pdf)) using their FIPS codes. This identifies and marks those individuals who lived in the South at the time of the survey.*

`gen migsouth=0`

`replace migsouth=1 if north==1 & south==1`

`tab migsouth`

`by race: tab migsouth`

*We then combine the previous two sections to identify the group of people who (1) were born in a Northern state and (2) now live in a Southern state. Following the same principle used in the previous two sections, a dummy variable **"migsouth"** is created. By default, **migsouth**=0. The next lines of code change the value of **migsouth** to 1 for each **north=1** and **south**=1. In other words, **migsouth**=1 identifies those who meet both of the above two conditions.*

Note: The lines of code are in gray, and descriptions or explanations are provided below each section in italics.

#### Record of our data work
Using the `log` command in Stata, we recorded the commands we used and their outputs in [2.3.2 Log File](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-migration/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/2%20Data%20Collection%20%26%20Analysis/2.3.2%20Log%20File.smcl).
